# Analysis of patent examiner network and processing time

This R markdown file presents an analysis of patent examiner network and
its relationship with processing time of patent applications. The data
used in this analysis includes a sample of patent application data and
network data of patent examiners.

## Prepare

First, we load the required libraries such as tidyverse, lubridate,
arrow, gender, and wru. Then, we load the data into R from the local
directory.

    # Load required libraries
    library(tidyverse)
    library(lubridate)
    library(arrow)
    library(gender)
    library(wru)

    # Load data
    applications <- read_parquet("C:/Users/ulyan/OneDrive - McGill University/Documents/MMA/Winter II 2023/Org Network Analysis/Exercise 3/672_project_data/app_data_sample.parquet")
    edges_sample <- read_csv("C:/Users/ulyan/OneDrive - McGill University/Documents/MMA/Winter II 2023/Org Network Analysis/Exercise 3/672_project_data/edges_sample.csv")

#### Add gender variable

We predict gender based on the first name of each examiner using the
gender library. We join the predicted gender data back to the main
applications dataset.

    # Get unique examiner first names
    examiner_names <- applications %>% distinct(examiner_name_first)

    # Predict gender based on first names
    examiner_names_gender <- examiner_names %>% 
      do(results = gender(.$examiner_name_first, method = "ssa")) %>% 
      unnest(cols = c(results), keep_empty = TRUE) %>% 
      select(examiner_name_first = name, gender, proportion_female)

    # Join gender data back to the main applications dataset
    applications <- applications %>% 
      left_join(examiner_names_gender, by = "examiner_name_first")

#### Add race variable

We predict the race of each examiner based on their last name using the
wru library. We join the predicted race data back to the main
applications dataset.

    # Get unique examiner last names
    examiner_surnames <- applications %>% select(surname = examiner_name_last) %>% distinct()

    # Predict race based on last names
    examiner_race <- predict_race(voter.file = examiner_surnames, surname.only = T) %>% as_tibble()

    ## Proceeding with last name predictions...

    ## â„¹ All local files already up-to-date!

    ## 701 (18.4%) individuals' last names were not matched.

    # Select the race with the highest probability for each last name
    examiner_race <- examiner_race %>% 
      mutate(max_race_p = pmax(pred.asi, pred.bla, pred.his, pred.oth, pred.whi)) %>% 
      mutate(race = case_when(
        max_race_p == pred.asi ~ "Asian",
        max_race_p == pred.bla ~ "black",
        max_race_p == pred.his ~ "Hispanic",
        max_race_p == pred.oth ~ "other",
        max_race_p == pred.whi ~ "white",
        TRUE ~ NA_character_
      ))

    # Join race data back to the main applications dataset
    applications <- applications %>% 
      left_join(examiner_race, by = c("examiner_name_last" = "surname"))

#### Add tenure variable

We calculate the tenure of each examiner by extracting the examiner IDs
and application dates. We calculate the earliest and latest dates for
each examiner and their tenure in days. We then join the tenure data
back to the main applications dataset.

    # Extract examiner IDs and application dates
    examiner_dates <- applications %>% 
      select(examiner_id, filing_date, appl_status_date)

    # Convert dates to a consistent format
    examiner_dates <- examiner_dates %>% 
      mutate(start_date = ymd(filing_date), end_date = as_date(dmy_hms(appl_status_date)))

    # Calculate the earliest and latest dates for each examiner and their tenure in days
    examiner_dates <- examiner_dates %>% 
      group_by(examiner_id) %>% 
      summarise(
        earliest_date = min(start_date, na.rm = TRUE), 
        latest_date = max(end_date, na.rm = TRUE),
        tenure_days = interval(earliest_date, latest_date) %/% days(1)
      ) %>% 
      filter(year(latest_date)<2018)

    # Join tenure data back to the main applications dataset
    applications <- applications %>% left_join(examiner_dates, by = "examiner_id")

## Create Advice Networks and Calculate Centrality Scores

This part of the R code uses the igraph and dplyr libraries to create an
advice network from the edges\_sample data and calculate centrality
scores for all examiners.

Load the required libraries - igraph and dplyr

    library(igraph)
    library(dplyr)

Create a list of unique examiner IDs from both the ego\_examiner\_id and
alter\_examiner\_id columns using the unique function.Then, create an
igraph object from the edges\_sample data, specifying vertex names as
the unique examiner IDs. This code creates an igraph object g from the
edges\_sample data, with the ego\_examiner\_id and alter\_examiner\_id
columns as edges, and the unique examiner IDs as vertices.

    unique_examiner_ids <- unique(c(edges_sample$ego_examiner_id, edges_sample$alter_examiner_id))

    g <- graph_from_data_frame(edges_sample[, c("ego_examiner_id", "alter_examiner_id")], directed = TRUE, vertices = data.frame(name = unique_examiner_ids))

    ## Warning in graph_from_data_frame(edges_sample[, c("ego_examiner_id",
    ## "alter_examiner_id")], : In `d' `NA' elements were replaced with string "NA"

    ## Warning in graph_from_data_frame(edges_sample[, c("ego_examiner_id",
    ## "alter_examiner_id")], : In `vertices[,1]' `NA' elements were replaced with
    ## string "NA"

Calculate the degree, betweenness, and closeness centralities for the
entire dataset using the degree, betweenness, and closeness functions in
igraph.This creates a data frame centrality\_entire with the examiner
IDs, degree centrality, betweenness centrality, and closeness centrality
for all examiners in the dataset.

    centrality_entire <- data.frame(
      examiner_id = V(g)$name,
      degree_centrality = degree(g, mode = "out"),
      betweenness_centrality = betweenness(g, directed = TRUE),
      closeness_centrality = closeness(g, mode = "out")
    )

Convert examiner\_id in centrality\_entire to double using the
as.numeric function.After that join the centrality data back to the main
applications dataset using the left\_join function in dplyr.This adds
the degree centrality, betweenness centrality, and closeness centrality
columns to the applications dataset based on the examiner\_id column.

    centrality_entire$examiner_id <- as.numeric(centrality_entire$examiner_id)

    ## Warning: NAs introduced by coercion

    applications <- applications %>%
      left_join(centrality_entire, by = "examiner_id")

## 1. Create variable for application processing time

This section of the code creates a new variable in the applications
dataset that measures the number of days from the application filing
date until the final decision on it, which could either be a patent
issue or abandonment.

    # Calculate the processing time
    applications <- applications %>%
      mutate(
        final_decision_date = coalesce(patent_issue_date, abandon_date),
        app_proc_time = as.numeric(difftime(final_decision_date, filing_date, units = "days"))
      )

## 2. Linear regression models

Remove rows with missing values in degree, betweenness, or closeness
centrality.

    applications_clean <- applications %>%
      filter(!is.na(degree_centrality),
             !is.na(betweenness_centrality),
             !is.na(closeness_centrality))

    # Estimate the linear regression model with degree_centrality as the independent variable
    degree_model <- lm(
      app_proc_time ~ degree_centrality + gender + race + tenure_days,
      data = applications_clean
    )

    # Print the summary of the model
    summary(degree_model)

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = app_proc_time ~ degree_centrality + gender + race + 
    ##     tenure_days, data = applications_clean)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2537.6  -442.5  -119.0   305.7  4933.2 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                     Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)        1.543e+03  8.002e+00 192.856  < 2e-16 ***
    ## degree_centrality  1.509e-01  2.523e-02   5.980 2.24e-09 ***
    ## gendermale         2.716e+01  1.818e+00  14.937  < 2e-16 ***
    ## raceblack          4.762e+00  4.762e+00   1.000  0.31739    
    ## raceHispanic       1.599e+01  5.749e+00   2.781  0.00542 ** 
    ## raceother          9.462e+00  3.615e+01   0.262  0.79349    
    ## racewhite         -6.491e+01  1.925e+00 -33.726  < 2e-16 ***
    ## tenure_days       -4.627e-02  1.294e-03 -35.768  < 2e-16 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 646.5 on 594077 degrees of freedom
    ##   (236232 observations deleted due to missingness)
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.005387,   Adjusted R-squared:  0.005376 
    ## F-statistic: 459.7 on 7 and 594077 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

The degree\_model includes degree\_centrality, gender, race, and
tenure\_days as independent variables, and app\_proc\_time as the
dependent variable. The adjusted R-squared value of the model is
0.005376, which means that only about 0.54% of the variation in
app\_proc\_time can be explained by the model. This is quite low,
indicating that the model does not fit the data well.

    # Betweenness centrality linear regression model
    betweenness_model <- lm(
      app_proc_time ~ betweenness_centrality + gender + race + tenure_days,
      data = applications_clean
    )
    summary(betweenness_model)

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = app_proc_time ~ betweenness_centrality + gender + 
    ##     race + tenure_days, data = applications_clean)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2536.4  -442.3  -118.9   305.6  4934.9 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                          Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)             1.563e+03  7.946e+00 196.700  < 2e-16 ***
    ## betweenness_centrality  2.052e-03  1.191e-04  17.229  < 2e-16 ***
    ## gendermale              2.579e+01  1.819e+00  14.182  < 2e-16 ***
    ## raceblack               6.620e+00  4.761e+00   1.391  0.16437    
    ## raceHispanic            1.726e+01  5.747e+00   3.004  0.00267 ** 
    ## raceother               1.046e+01  3.614e+01   0.289  0.77232    
    ## racewhite              -6.388e+01  1.924e+00 -33.194  < 2e-16 ***
    ## tenure_days            -4.987e-02  1.298e-03 -38.404  < 2e-16 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 646.3 on 594077 degrees of freedom
    ##   (236232 observations deleted due to missingness)
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.005824,   Adjusted R-squared:  0.005813 
    ## F-statistic: 497.2 on 7 and 594077 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

The betweenness\_model includes betweenness\_centrality, gender, race,
and tenure\_days as independent variables, and app\_proc\_time as the
dependent variable. The adjusted R-squared value of the model is
0.005813, which is still low, suggesting that betweenness\_centrality is
not a good predictor of app\_proc\_time.

    # Closeness centrality linear regression model
    closeness_model <- lm(
      app_proc_time ~ closeness_centrality + gender + race + tenure_days,
      data = applications_clean
    )
    summary(closeness_model)

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = app_proc_time ~ closeness_centrality + gender + 
    ##     race + tenure_days, data = applications_clean)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2563.8  -440.9  -118.6   305.4  5009.8 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                        Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)           1.494e+03  7.975e+00 187.299  < 2e-16 ***
    ## closeness_centrality -1.175e+02  2.315e+00 -50.732  < 2e-16 ***
    ## gendermale            2.728e+01  1.814e+00  15.036  < 2e-16 ***
    ## raceblack             2.128e+01  4.761e+00   4.470 7.81e-06 ***
    ## raceHispanic          1.735e+01  5.735e+00   3.025  0.00248 ** 
    ## raceother            -4.591e+00  3.607e+01  -0.127  0.89871    
    ## racewhite            -6.012e+01  1.922e+00 -31.288  < 2e-16 ***
    ## tenure_days          -3.257e-02  1.316e-03 -24.746  < 2e-16 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 645.1 on 594077 degrees of freedom
    ##   (236232 observations deleted due to missingness)
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.009618,   Adjusted R-squared:  0.009607 
    ## F-statistic: 824.2 on 7 and 594077 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

The closeness\_model includes closeness\_centrality, gender, race, and
tenure\_days as independent variables, and app\_proc\_time as the
dependent variable. The adjusted R-squared value of the model is
0.009607, which is slightly better than that of the betweenness\_model,
but still relatively low. This suggests that while closeness\_centrality
may have some predictive power for app\_proc\_time, it is not a strong
predictor on its own.

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = app_proc_time ~ degree_centrality + betweenness_centrality + 
    ##     closeness_centrality + gender + race + tenure_days, data = applications_clean)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2564.5  -440.7  -118.8   305.3  5009.5 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                          Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)             1.509e+03  8.104e+00 186.189  < 2e-16 ***
    ## degree_centrality      -2.006e-01  2.617e-02  -7.666 1.77e-14 ***
    ## betweenness_centrality  9.939e-04  1.222e-04   8.132 4.22e-16 ***
    ## closeness_centrality   -1.181e+02  2.423e+00 -48.759  < 2e-16 ***
    ## gendermale              2.648e+01  1.816e+00  14.586  < 2e-16 ***
    ## raceblack               2.131e+01  4.763e+00   4.473 7.70e-06 ***
    ## raceHispanic            1.736e+01  5.737e+00   3.025  0.00248 ** 
    ## raceother              -5.187e+00  3.607e+01  -0.144  0.88565    
    ## racewhite              -6.002e+01  1.923e+00 -31.205  < 2e-16 ***
    ## tenure_days            -3.484e-02  1.338e-03 -26.039  < 2e-16 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 645 on 594075 degrees of freedom
    ##   (236232 observations deleted due to missingness)
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.009804,   Adjusted R-squared:  0.009789 
    ## F-statistic: 653.6 on 9 and 594075 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

The combined model (including degree, betweenness, and closeness
centralities) has an adjusted R-squared of 0.009789, while the
closeness\_model has an adjusted R-squared of 0.009607. Although the
combined model has a slightly higher adjusted R-squared, the improvement
is marginal.

## 3. Does this relationship differ by examiner gender?

The part of the code consists of four linear regression models in R,
each with a different independent variable (degree centrality,
betweenness centrality, closeness centrality, or a combination of all
three) and interaction with gender. The dependent variable in each model
is app\_proc\_time, which represents the time it takes for an
application to be processed.

    # Degree centrality model with interaction
    degree_gender_interaction <- lm(
      app_proc_time ~ degree_centrality * gender + race + tenure_days,
      data = applications_clean
    )
    summary(degree_gender_interaction)

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = app_proc_time ~ degree_centrality * gender + race + 
    ##     tenure_days, data = applications_clean)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2538.4  -442.7  -118.7   305.7  4939.9 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                                Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)                   1.533e+03  8.059e+00 190.228  < 2e-16 ***
    ## degree_centrality             6.129e-01  5.092e-02  12.037  < 2e-16 ***
    ## gendermale                    3.675e+01  2.037e+00  18.043  < 2e-16 ***
    ## raceblack                     5.074e+00  4.762e+00   1.065  0.28670    
    ## raceHispanic                  1.807e+01  5.752e+00   3.142  0.00168 ** 
    ## raceother                     9.810e+00  3.614e+01   0.271  0.78607    
    ## racewhite                    -6.512e+01  1.925e+00 -33.837  < 2e-16 ***
    ## tenure_days                  -4.578e-02  1.295e-03 -35.363  < 2e-16 ***
    ## degree_centrality:gendermale -6.103e-01  5.842e-02 -10.447  < 2e-16 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 646.4 on 594076 degrees of freedom
    ##   (236232 observations deleted due to missingness)
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.00557,    Adjusted R-squared:  0.005557 
    ## F-statistic:   416 on 8 and 594076 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

The first model, degree\_gender\_interaction, shows that degree
centrality is a statistically significant predictor of app\_proc\_time,
with an estimated coefficient of 0.613. Gender is also a significant
predictor, with male examiners taking longer to process applications
than female examiners (coefficient of 36.75). There is a statistically
significant interaction effect between degree centrality and gender,
indicating that the relationship between degree centrality and
app\_proc\_time depends on the gender of the examiner.

    # Betweenness centrality model with interaction
    betweenness_gender_interaction <- lm(
      app_proc_time ~ betweenness_centrality * gender + race + tenure_days,
      data = applications_clean
    )
    summary(betweenness_gender_interaction)

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = app_proc_time ~ betweenness_centrality * gender + 
    ##     race + tenure_days, data = applications_clean)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2535.0  -442.4  -118.6   305.4  4931.7 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                                     Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)                        1.568e+03  7.957e+00 197.055  < 2e-16 ***
    ## betweenness_centrality            -4.636e-05  2.182e-04  -0.212  0.83178    
    ## gendermale                         2.081e+01  1.870e+00  11.127  < 2e-16 ***
    ## raceblack                          5.567e+00  4.761e+00   1.169  0.24230    
    ## raceHispanic                       1.623e+01  5.748e+00   2.824  0.00474 ** 
    ## raceother                          1.180e+01  3.613e+01   0.326  0.74405    
    ## racewhite                         -6.385e+01  1.924e+00 -33.182  < 2e-16 ***
    ## tenure_days                       -5.014e-02  1.299e-03 -38.613  < 2e-16 ***
    ## betweenness_centrality:gendermale  2.973e-03  2.592e-04  11.472  < 2e-16 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 646.3 on 594076 degrees of freedom
    ##   (236232 observations deleted due to missingness)
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.006045,   Adjusted R-squared:  0.006031 
    ## F-statistic: 451.6 on 8 and 594076 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

The second model, betweenness\_gender\_interaction, shows that
betweenness centrality is not a statistically significant predictor of
app\_proc\_time, with an estimated coefficient of -0.000046. Gender is
again a significant predictor, with male examiners taking longer to
process applications than female examiners (coefficient of 20.81). There
is a statistically significant interaction effect between betweenness
centrality and gender, indicating that the relationship between
betweenness centrality and app\_proc\_time depends on the gender of the
examiner.

    # Closeness centrality model with interaction
    closeness_gender_interaction <- lm(
      app_proc_time ~ closeness_centrality * gender + race + tenure_days,
      data = applications_clean
    )
    summary(closeness_gender_interaction)

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = app_proc_time ~ closeness_centrality * gender + 
    ##     race + tenure_days, data = applications_clean)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2565.0  -440.8  -118.5   305.4  5002.4 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                                   Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)                      1.490e+03  8.082e+00 184.301  < 2e-16 ***
    ## closeness_centrality            -1.072e+02  4.025e+00 -26.629  < 2e-16 ***
    ## gendermale                       3.160e+01  2.283e+00  13.844  < 2e-16 ***
    ## raceblack                        2.072e+01  4.765e+00   4.349 1.37e-05 ***
    ## raceHispanic                     1.581e+01  5.757e+00   2.745  0.00604 ** 
    ## raceother                       -5.814e+00  3.607e+01  -0.161  0.87194    
    ## racewhite                       -6.022e+01  1.922e+00 -31.335  < 2e-16 ***
    ## tenure_days                     -3.237e-02  1.318e-03 -24.556  < 2e-16 ***
    ## closeness_centrality:gendermale -1.518e+01  4.861e+00  -3.122  0.00179 ** 
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 645.1 on 594076 degrees of freedom
    ##   (236232 observations deleted due to missingness)
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.009635,   Adjusted R-squared:  0.009621 
    ## F-statistic: 722.4 on 8 and 594076 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

The third model, closeness\_gender\_interaction, shows that closeness
centrality is a statistically significant predictor of app\_proc\_time,
with an estimated coefficient of -107.2. Gender is also a significant
predictor, with male examiners taking longer to process applications
than female examiners (coefficient of 31.6). There is a statistically
significant interaction effect between closeness centrality and gender,
indicating that the relationship between closeness centrality and
app\_proc\_time depends on the gender of the examiner.

    # Combined model with interaction
    combined_gender_interaction <- lm(
      app_proc_time ~ (degree_centrality + betweenness_centrality + closeness_centrality) * gender + race + tenure_days,
      data = applications_clean
    )
    summary(combined_gender_interaction)

    ## 
    ## Call:
    ## lm(formula = app_proc_time ~ (degree_centrality + betweenness_centrality + 
    ##     closeness_centrality) * gender + race + tenure_days, data = applications_clean)
    ## 
    ## Residuals:
    ##     Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
    ## -2564.8  -440.7  -118.3   305.2  5002.2 
    ## 
    ## Coefficients:
    ##                                     Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)    
    ## (Intercept)                        1.499e+03  8.351e+00 179.545  < 2e-16 ***
    ## degree_centrality                  2.636e-01  5.402e-02   4.880 1.06e-06 ***
    ## betweenness_centrality            -1.236e-03  2.222e-04  -5.563 2.66e-08 ***
    ## closeness_centrality              -1.034e+02  4.281e+00 -24.146  < 2e-16 ***
    ## gendermale                         3.630e+01  2.733e+00  13.281  < 2e-16 ***
    ## raceblack                          1.954e+01  4.766e+00   4.100 4.13e-05 ***
    ## raceHispanic                       1.634e+01  5.757e+00   2.839 0.004527 ** 
    ## raceother                         -4.789e+00  3.606e+01  -0.133 0.894363    
    ## racewhite                         -6.039e+01  1.924e+00 -31.395  < 2e-16 ***
    ## tenure_days                       -3.454e-02  1.342e-03 -25.744  < 2e-16 ***
    ## degree_centrality:gendermale      -6.084e-01  6.167e-02  -9.866  < 2e-16 ***
    ## betweenness_centrality:gendermale  3.139e-03  2.638e-04  11.900  < 2e-16 ***
    ## closeness_centrality:gendermale   -1.936e+01  5.144e+00  -3.764 0.000167 ***
    ## ---
    ## Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1
    ## 
    ## Residual standard error: 644.9 on 594072 degrees of freedom
    ##   (236232 observations deleted due to missingness)
    ## Multiple R-squared:  0.01018,    Adjusted R-squared:  0.01016 
    ## F-statistic:   509 on 12 and 594072 DF,  p-value: < 2.2e-16

Based on the output from the fourth (combined) model with gender
interactions, it seems that the relationship between centrality measures
and app\_proc\_time does indeed differ by examiner gender. The
interaction terms for all three centrality measures with gender
(degree\_centrality:gendermale, betweenness\_centrality:gendermale, and
closeness\_centrality:gendermale) are statistically significant with
p-values less than 0.05:

1.  degree\_centrality:gendermale: Estimate = -6.084e-01, p-value &lt;
    2e-16
2.  betweenness\_centrality:gendermale: Estimate = 3.139e-03, p-value
    &lt; 2e-16
3.  closeness\_centrality:gendermale: Estimate = -1.936e+01, p-value =
    0.000167

These results suggest that the relationship between centrality measures
and application processing time does differ between male and female
examiners. In other words, the effect of centrality on app\_proc\_time
is not consistent across examiner gender.

## 4. Discussion

The findings of this exercise suggest that there is a relationship
between the centrality of patent examiners and the processing time of
patent applications. Specifically, the results indicate that degree
centrality, betweenness centrality, and closeness centrality are all
weak predictors of application processing time, with adjusted R-squared
values ranging from 0.005376 to 0.009789. However, when examining the
relationship between centrality and processing time by examiner gender,
the results suggest that this relationship is not consistent across
gender. The interaction terms between gender and each of the three
centrality measures are all statistically significant, indicating that
the effect of centrality on processing time is different for male and
female examiners.

These findings have important implications for the USPTO. First, the
relatively weak relationship between centrality measures and application
processing time suggests that other factors, beyond examiner centrality,
are likely driving variations in processing time. Second, the results
showing differences in the effect of centrality on processing time by
gender raise concerns about potential inequities in the agencyâ€™s
decision-making process. This finding suggests that the USPTO may need
to examine its policies and practices around examiner mobility,
promotion, and attrition, and how they may differ by gender and other
demographic characteristics. Addressing any potential inequities in
these areas could help to reduce processing time and improve the
agencyâ€™s ability to support innovation and economic growth.
